Ethernet

Posted by: Margaret Rouse
WhatIs.com
  
Contributor(s): Wesley Chai, Alissa Irei and John Burke

Ethernet is the traditional technology for connecting devices in a 
wired local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN), enabling 
them to communicate with each other via a protocol -- a set of rules 
or common network language. Ethernet describes how network devices can 
format and transmit data so other devices on the same local or campus 
area network segment can recognize, receive and process the information. 
An Ethernet cable is the physical, encased wiring over which the data 
travels.

Connected devices accessing a geographically localized network with a 
cable -- that is, with a wired rather than wireless connection -- 
likely use Ethernet.

Advantages :

relatively low cost;
backward compatibility;
generally resistant to noise;
good data transfer quality;
speed;
reliability; and
data security -- common firewalls can be used.


Disadvantages :

It is intended for smaller, shorter distance networks.
Mobility is limited.
Use of longer cables can create crosstalk.
It does not work well with real-time or interactive applications.
Increased traffic makes the Ethernet speed go down.
Receivers do not acknowledge the reception of data packets.
When troubleshooting, it is hard to trace which specific cable or 
node is causing the issue.

How Ethernet works

IEEE specifies in the family of standards called IEEE 802.3 that the 
Ethernet protocol touches both Layer 1 (physical layer) and Layer 2 
(data link layer) on the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) network 
protocol model.

Ethernet defines two units of transmission: packet and frame. 
The frame includes not just the payload of data being transmitted, 
but also the following:

1 the physical media access control (MAC) addresses of both the sender 
and receiver;
2 virtual LAN (VLAN) tagging and quality of service (QoS) information; and
error correction information to detect transmission problems.
3 Each frame is wrapped in a packet that contains several bytes of 
information to establish the connection and mark where the frame starts.

HUBS TO SWITCHES
Later, Ethernet hubs largely gave way to network switches. 
Because a hub cannot discriminate between points on a network segment, 
it can't send data directly from point A to point B. Instead, whenever 
a network device sends a transmission via an input port, the hub copies 
the data and distributes it to all the available output ports.

In contrast, a switch intelligently sends any given port only the 
traffic intended for its devices rather than copies of any and all the 
transmissions on the network segment, thus improving security and efficiency.

Like with other network types, involved computers must include a 
network interface card (NIC) to connect to Ethernet.




