
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/
brownfield/distributed-caching-and-scalability

CACHING (READ THROUGH, WRITE BEHIND) 
-> DB (REPLICATE, PARTITION)
-> SYNCHRONIZATION (EVENT BASED, POLLING)

As mentioned earlier, databases are always the bottleneck in 
high-transaction environments, and they become bottlenecks due 
mostly to excessive read operations, which also slow down write 
operations. 



TYPES : 

1 READ THROUGH: 

In a nutshell, read-through is a feature that allows your cache to 
directly read data from your data source, whatever that may be. 
You write a read-through handler and register it with your cache, 
and then your cache calls this handler at appropriate times.

One important capability of a read-through 
handler is that the data you cache, is fetched by the cache directly 
from the database. They can just fetch data from the cache, and if 
the cache doesn't have it, the cache goes and takes it from the database.

The cache uses only one thread, one database trip, to reload that 
data from the database, whereas you might have thousands of users 
trying to access that same data. If you did not have read-through 
capability, all those users would be going directly to the database, 
inundating the database with thousands of parallel requests.


However, keep in mind that read-through is not a substitute for 
performing some complex joined queries in the database. A typical 
cache does not let you do these types of queries. A read-through 
capability works well for individual object read operations but not 
in operations involving complex joined queries, which you always need 
to perform on the database.

Write Through, Write Behind

WRITE THROUGH synchronously :

Write-through is just like read-through: you provide a handler, 
and the cache calls the handler, which writes the data to the database 
whenever you update the cache. One major benefit is that your 
application doesn't have to write directly to the database because 
the cache does it for you. This simplifies your application code 
because the cache, rather than your application, has the data access code.

Normally, your application issues an update to the cache 
(for example, Add, Insert, or Remove). The cache updates itself 
first and then issues an update call to the database through your 
write-through handler. Your application waits until both the cache 
and the database are updated.

WRITE BEHIND asynchronously :

What if you want to wait for the cache to be updated, but you don't 
want to wait for the database to be updated because that slows down 
your application's performance? That's where write-behind comes in, 
which uses the same write-through handler but updates the cache 
synchronously and the database asynchronously. This means that your 
application waits for the cache to be updated, but you don't wait for 
the database to be updated.

You know that the database update is queued up and that the 
database is updated fairly quickly by the cache. This is another 
way to improve your application performance. You have to write to 
the database anyway, but why wait? If the cache has the data, you 
don't even suffer the consequences of other instances of your 
application not finding the data in the database because you just 
updated the cache, and the other instances of your application will 
find the data in the cache and won't need to go to the database.



Synchronizing a Cache with Other Environments

Expirations and cache dependency features are intended to help 
you keep the cache fresh and correct. You also need to synchronize 
your cache with data sources that you and your cache don't have access 
to so that changes in those data sources are reflected in your cache to 
keep it fresh.

For example, let's say your cache is written using the 
Microsoft .NET Framework, but you have Java or C++ applications 
modifying data in your master data source. You want these 
applications to notify your cache when certain data changes in the 
master data sources so that your cache can invalidate a corresponding 
cached item.

But in a real-life environment, that's not always the case. 
Whenever a third party or any other application changes the database 
data, you want the cache to reflect that change. The cache reflects 
changes by reloading the data, or at least by not having the older 
data in the cache.

If the cache has an old copy and the database a new copy, you now 
have a data integrity problem because you don't know which copy is right. 
Of course, the database is always right, but you don't always go to the 
database. You get data from the cache because your application trusts 
that the cache will always be correct or that the cache will be correct 
enough for its needs.

Synchronizing with the database can mean invalidating the related item 
in the cache so that the next time your application needs it, it will 
fetch it from the database. One interesting variant to this process is 
when the cache automatically reloads an updated copy of the object when 
the data changes in the database.


EVENT FIRE TO synchronize :

If a row is updated, the DBMS fires an event that your cache catches. 
It then knows which cached item is related to this row in the database 
and invalidates that cached item.

It would be nice if your cache could poll your database on 
configurable intervals and detect changes in 
certain rows in a table. If those rows have changed, your cache 
invalidates their corresponding cached items.

POLLING BASED synchronization :

The second situation is when data in your database is frequently 
changing and .NET events are becoming too chatty. This occurs because 
a separate .NET event is fired for each SqlCacheDependency change, 
and if you have thousands of rows that are updated frequently, this 
could easily crowd your cache. In such cases, it is much more efficient 
to rely on polling, where with one database query you can fetch 
hundreds or thousands of rows that have changed and then invalidate 
corresponding cached items. Of course, polling creates a slight delay 
in synchronization (maybe 15–30 seconds), but this is acceptable in 
many cases.



Cache Performance and Scalability

REPLICATED CACHING (READS >> WRITES)

In most distributed cache situations, you have two or more cache 
servers hosting the cache. I'll use the term "cache cluster" to indicate 
two or more cache servers joined together to form one logical cache. 
A replicated cache copies the entire cache on each cache server in the 
cache cluster. This means that a replicated cache provides high 
availability. If any one cache server goes down, you don't lose any 
data in the cache because another copy is immediately available to 
the application. It's also an extremely efficient topology and 
provides great scalability if your application needs to do a lot of 
read-intensive operations. As you add more cache servers, you add 
that much more read-transaction capacity to your cache cluster. 
But a replicated cache is not the ideal topology for write-intensive 
operations. If you are updating the cache as frequently as you are 
reading it, don't use the replicated topology.


TRANSACTIONAL DATA CACHING (READS == WRITES)
ONE PARTITION IN EACH SERVER

A partitioned cache breaks up the cache into partitions and then 
stores one partition on each cache server in the cluster. This 
topology is the most scalable for transactional data caching 
(when writes to the cache are as frequent as reads). As you add more 
cache servers to the cluster, you increase not only the transaction 
capacity but also the storage capacity of the cache, since all those 
partitions together form the entire cache.

Many distributed caches provide a variant of a partitioned cache 
for high availability, where each partition is also replicated so 
that one cache server contains a partition and a copy or a backup 
of another server's partition. This way, you don't lose any data 
if any one server goes down. Some caching solutions allow you to 
create more than one copy of each partition for added reliability.